### Distributed Query Directories
#### Instroduction
Today, many health and social care organizations maintain directories, including providers, payers, health information exchange organizations (HIEs/HIOs), health information service providers (HISPs), social services organizations, government agencies, and credentialing organizations. However, despite their importance, health and social care directory activities remain scattered, uncoordinated, and are often not interoperable. As a result, the industry collectively spends significant time and resources registering and validating demographic information for individual and organizational providers for purposes such as information exchange, referrals, licensure, credentialing, certification, and payment

Conceptually, this guide was written to describe the flow of information from a central source of verified healthcare directory data to local workflow environments. We envisioned the NDH which functioned as a “source of truth” for a broad set of provider data available to support local business needs and use cases. A local environment could readily obtain all or a subset of the data it needed from the NDH and have confidence that the information was accurate. If necessary, a local environment could supplement the NDH data with additional data sourced and/or maintained locally. For example, a local environment doing provider credentialing might rely on verified healthcare directory for demographic information about a provider (e.g. name, address, educational history, license information, etc.), but also ask the provider for supplementary information such as their work history, liability insurance coverage, or military experience. Likewise, we envisioned that the NDH would share information with other systems, individual end users or the general public.

The content of this guide, however, does not preclude it from being implemented for smaller “local” directories, or accessed by the general public. Generally, conformance requirements throughout the guide are less tightly constrained so as to support a wider variety of possible implementations. We did not want to set strict requirements about the overall design, technical architecture, capabilities, etc. of a verified national directory that might prevent adoption of this standard. For example, although we would expect the NDH to gather and share information about healthcare provider insurance networks and health plans, implementations are not required to do so to be considered conformant.

The NDH may contain a large amount of data that will not be relevant to all use cases or local needs. Therefore, the exchange API defines a number of search parameters to enable users to express the scope of a subset of data they care to access. For example, implementations are required to support searches for Organizations based on address, endpoint, identifier, name/alias, and relationship to a parent organization. In general, parameters for selecting resources based on a business identifier, status, type, or relationship (i.e. reference) are required for all implementations. Most parameters may be used in combination with other parameters and support more “advanced” capabilities like modifiers and chains.

The NDH exchange API currently supports more than one method for accessing directory data. First, a real-time GET of a set of information. However, stakeholders may need other capabilities to support different business needs. For instance, stakeholders may need access to large amounts of data in a single session to either initially seed or refresh their local data repositories. Depending on the scope of data a stakeholder is trying to access, a real-time pull may not be the most effective method for acquiring large data sets. The FHIR specification provides support for asynchronous interactions, using the Bulk Data standard, which may be necessary for implementers to facilitate processing of large amounts of data.

Th Distributed Working Directory implementation should also consider providing capabilities for users to subscribe to receive updates about the data they care about. A subscribe/publish model can help alleviate the need for stakeholders to periodically query for new data and/or changes to data they have already obtained.Restricted Content

We envision the NDH as a public or semi-public utility and make a significant portion of the information openly available. However, the NDH may include sensitive data that is not publicly accessible or accessible to every verified healthcare directory stakeholder. For example, an implementer might not want to make data about military personnel, emergency responders/volunteers, or domestic violence shelters available to everyone with access to the verified national directory, or to users in a local environment who have access to data obtained from the NDH.

We expect that the NDH operational policies and legal agreements will clearly delineate which data stakeholders can access, and if necessary, require stakeholders to protect the privacy/confidentiality of sensitive information in downstream local environments. As such, we have included a Restriction profile based on the Consent resource to convey any restrictions associated with a data element, collection of elements, or resource obtained from the NDH.