### Background & Scope
The NDH comprises of three data tables: the first contains unattested data sourced from other attested data pools like NPPES and PECOS, the second contains updated and changed data specific to individuals or organizations, and the third contains attested data. Only the third table data is accessible to distributed workflow directories, whereas the first and second table data are not. Each resource instance in the third table has a verification status indicating whether it has been completely verified, incompletely verified, or does not require verification. A verified resource instance means that all its elements have been factually verified through primary sources, such as a medical license that has been verified by the state medicine board. It can also mean that the mutual relationship between the parties has been attested by both the practitioner and the organization.

The first and second table data are not accessible to distributed workflow directories, but the incomplete verified data may still be valuable for these directories. For example, if a physician has recently obtained their license to practice medicine and has done their attestations with NDH, a distributed workflow directory may want to have this information even if it has not yet been fully verified. Similarly, if a hospital has attested to a physician's visiting privileges but NDH is still pending the physician's attestation, the hospital may want the physician listed on their roster of individuals with admitting privileges.

Incomplete verification refers to information that has not yet been verified, is currently being verified but not yet completed, or has expired and needs to be reverified. To learn more about incomplete verification, you can refer to the verification resource for more information. Although incomplete verification instances may have some information pending verification, they may still be valuable to a distributed workflow directory. It is useful for the directory to examine the data and identify the resource instances that have not yet been fully verified, and then request the verification resource instance for further details to take appropriate action. Rather than simply disregarding incomplete verification instances, this approach can provide useful insights. For completely verified resources, the verification resource provides details of the verification process and its outcome.

For fully verified resources, the verification resource provides details on the verification process. Resource instances with a "not required" status do not need to be verified but have been attested and have a verification resource associated with them indicating that no verification or mutual attestation is needed.